Secret and secret manager Tutorial (#2510)
harness/developer-hub: tutorials/cd-pipelines/secret-and-secret-managers/secret-secretmanager.md

# How to Manage Secrets with In-built Harness Secret Manager

Google Cloud Key Management Service is the default Secret Manager in Harness and is named Harness Secret Manager Google KMS. To configure the same you should go through the link [how to add a Google KMS Secret Manager in Harness.](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/secrets/secrets-management/add-google-kms-secrets-manager/)

Here is, how it works. Your browser sends information securely to Harness Manager using HTTPS. Harness Manager transfers encrypted information to the Harness Delegate using HTTPS. The Delegate securely exchanges a pair of keys with the Secret Manager through an encrypted connection. The Harness Delegate uses the encrypted key and secret, and then gets rid of them. The keys never leave the Delegate. Now delgate has the required value it will deploy on the instances. 

# Integrate Third Party Secret Managers 

:::info

> This feature is behind a Feature Flag and is available only to our paid customers. 

Reviewer: @harnesspravin Do we have the FF name?

The Harness delegate is a service that runs in your local network or VPC to establish connections between the Harness Manager and various providers such as artifacts registries, cloud platforms, etc. The delegate is installed in the target infrastructure, for example, a Kubernetes cluster, and performs operations including deployment and integration. Learn more about the delegate in the [Delegate Overview](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/delegates/delegate-concepts/delegate-overview/).

</details>

**Make sure delegate is installed and its connected. For more details, you can refer [tutorial](https://developer.harness.io/tutorials/cd-pipelines/serverless/gcp-cloud-func#delegate)**

## Secrets

### AWS - Access Key ID

-  Select **New Secret**, and then select **Text**.
-  Enter the secret name `aws_kms_access_key`.
-  For the secret value, paste the access token for your AWS user account. The Harness delegate uses this credential to authenticate Harness with AWS at deployment runtime.
-  Select **Save**.

### AWS - Secret Key ID

-  Select **New Secret**, and then select **Text**.
-  Enter the secret name `aws_kms_secret_key`.

> -  For the secret value, paste the access token for your AWS user account. The Harness delegate uses this credential to authenticate Harness with AWS at deployment runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  For the secret value, paste the access token for your AWS user account. The Harness Delegate uses this credential to authenticate Harness with AWS at deployment runtime.
```

-  Select **Save**.

### AWS - ARN

-  Select **New Secret**, and then select **Text**.
-  Enter the secret name `aws_kms_arn`.

> -  For the secret value, paste the ARN for your AWS user account. The Harness delegate uses this credential to authenticate Harness with AWS at deployment runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  For the secret value, paste the ARN for your AWS user account. The Harness Delegate uses this credential to authenticate Harness with AWS at deployment runtime.
```

-  Select **Save**.

> **More information [To find the Access key ID and ARN](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/find-cmk-id-arn.html)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, go to [find the Access key ID and ARN](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/find-cmk-id-arn.html) in the AWS documentation.
```

## Connectors

<details open>
<summary>What are connectors?</summary>

> Connectors in Harness enable integration with 3rd party tools, providing authentication for operations during pipeline runtime. For instance, a GitHub connector facilitates authentication and fetching files from a GitHub repository within pipeline stages. For more details, go to [Connectors](https://developer.harness.io/docs/category/connectors).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connectors in Harness enable integration with third-party tools, providing authentication for operations during pipeline runtime. For instance, a GitHub connector facilitates authentication and fetching files from a GitHub repository within pipeline stages. For more details, go to [Connectors](https://developer.harness.io/docs/category/connectors).
```

</details>

1. Create the **AWS Connector**.

> - Copy the contents of [aws-kms-connector.yml](https://github.com/harness-community/harnesscd-example-apps/blob/master/harness-platform/secrets/aws-kms-connector.yaml).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Copy the contents of [aws-kms-connector.yaml] file (https://github.com/harness-community/harnesscd-example-apps/blob/master/harness-platform/secrets/aws-kms-connector.yaml).
```

- In your Harness project in the Harness Manager, under **Project Setup**, select **Connectors**.
- Select **Create via YAML Builder** and paste the copied YAML.
- Select **Save Changes** and verify that the new connector named **aws-kms-connector** is successfully created.
- Finally, select **Connection Test** under **Connectivity Status** to verify the connection is successful.

:::info

> If you are NOT using default organisation and project, make sure to change the `orgIdentifier` and `projectIdentifier` in aws-kms-connector.yaml file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are NOT using the default organization and project, make sure to change the `orgIdentifier` and `projectIdentifier` in the `aws-kms-connector.yaml` file.
```

:::

> Now you use this secret manager in your pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now use this secret manager in your pipeline.
```

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="GCP KMS">
```
## Before you begin

Verify that you have the following:

1. Obtain the **[Google Cloud Symmetric Key](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/Secrets/Secrets-Management/add-google-kms-secrets-manager#obtain-google-cloud-symmetric-key)** to get values like **Project ID, Region, Key Ring, Key Name** for the Details page, from Google Cloud Console.
2.  **Fork the [harnessed-example-apps](https://github.com/harness-community/harnesscd-example-apps/fork)** repository through the GitHub website.

>     - For more information on forking a GitHub repository, go to [GitHub docs](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo#forking-a-repository).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - For more information on forking a GitHub repository, go to [forking a repository](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo#forking-a-repository) in the GitHub documentation.
```

> 3. **Docker**. For this tutorial ensure that you have the Docker runtime installed on your Harness delegate host. If not, use one of the following options to install Docker:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Docker**. For this tutorial, ensure that you have the Docker runtime installed on your Harness Delegate host. If you do not have the Docker runtime, use one of the following installation options:
```

    - [Docker for Mac](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/mac-install/)
    - [Docker for CentOS](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/centos/)
    - [Docker for Ubuntu](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/)
    - [Docker for Debian](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/debian/)
    - [Docker for Windows](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/windows-install/) 
    - Check [Delegate system requirements](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/Delegates/delegate-concepts/delegate-requirements).

> ## Getting Started with GCP KMS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Getting started with GCP KMS
```

> 1. Login to Harness.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Sign in to Harness.
```

2. Select **Projects**, and then select **Default Project**.

## Delegate

<details open>

> <summary>What is the Harness delegate?</summary>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<summary>What is the Harness Delegate?</summary>
```

> The Harness delegate is a service that runs in your local network or VPC to establish connections between the Harness Manager and various providers such as artifacts registries, cloud platforms, etc. The delegate is installed in the target infrastructure, for example, a Kubernetes cluster, and performs operations including deployment and integration. Learn more about the delegate in the [Delegate Overview](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/delegates/delegate-concepts/delegate-overview/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Harness Delegate is a service that runs in your local network or VPC to establish connections between the Harness Manager and various providers, such as artifacts registries, cloud platforms, etc. The delegate is installed in the target infrastructure, for example, a Kubernetes cluster, and performs operations including deployment and integration. Learn more about the delegate in the [Delegate overview](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/delegates/delegate-concepts/delegate-overview/).
```

</details>

> **Make sure delegate is installed and its connected. For more details, you can refer [tutorial](https://developer.harness.io/tutorials/cd-pipelines/serverless/gcp-cloud-func#delegate)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Make sure the delegate is installed and it is connected. For more details, go to the [Google Cloud Functions](https://developer.harness.io/tutorials/cd-pipelines/serverless/gcp-cloud-func#delegate) tutorial.**
```

## Secrets

> ### GCP - Secret Key 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### GCP - Secret key 
```

-  Select **New Secret**, and then select **File**.
-  Enter the secret name `gcp_kms_secret_key`.
-  For the Select File,
    - Open your GCP service account's Actions ⋮ menu, then select Manage keys. 
    - Select ADD KEY > Create new key.
    - In the resulting Create private key dialog, select JSON, create the key, and download it to your computer.
    - Upload that json file. 
-  Select **Save**.

## Connectors

<details open>
<summary>What are connectors?</summary>

> Connectors in Harness enable integration with 3rd party tools, providing authentication for operations during pipeline runtime. For instance, a GitHub connector facilitates authentication and fetching files from a GitHub repository within pipeline stages. For more details, go to [Connectors](https://developer.harness.io/docs/category/connectors).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connectors in Harness enable integration with third-party tools, providing authentication for operations during pipeline runtime. For instance, a GitHub connector facilitates authentication and fetching files from a GitHub repository within pipeline stages. For more details, go to [Connectors](https://developer.harness.io/docs/category/connectors).
```

</details>

1. Create the **GCP Connector**.

- Copy the contents of [gcp-kms-connector.yaml](https://github.com/harness-community/harnesscd-example-apps/blob/master/harness-platform/secrets/gcp-kms-connector.yaml).
- In your Harness project in the Harness Manager, under **Project Setup**, select **Connectors**.
- Select **Create via YAML Builder** and paste the copied YAML.
- Replace `GCP PROJECT ID` with your GCP project name.
- Replace `GCP Region` with your GCP Region.
- Replace `GCP KeyRing` with your GCP KeyRing.
- Replace `GCP KeyName` with your GCP KeyName.

> You can refer [Obtain Google Cloud Symmertic Key](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/Secrets/Secrets-Management/add-google-kms-secrets-manager#obtain-google-cloud-symmetric-key) to get more information on above parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can refer [Obtain Google Cloud Symmertic Key](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/Secrets/Secrets-Management/add-google-kms-secrets-manager#obtain-google-cloud-symmetric-key) to get more information on the above parameters.
```

> - Select **Save Changes** and verify that the new connector named **gcp-kms-connector** is successfully created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Select **Save Changes**, and verify that the new connector named **gcp-kms-connector** is successfully created.
```

- Finally, select **Connection Test** under **Connectivity Status** to verify the connection is successful.

:::info

> If you are NOT using default organisation and project, make sure to change the `orgIdentifier` and `projectIdentifier` in gcp-kms-connector.yaml file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are NOT using the default organization and project, make sure to change the `orgIdentifier` and `projectIdentifier` in the `gcp-kms-connector.yaml` file.
```

:::

> Now you use this secret manager in your pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now use this secret manager in your pipeline.
```

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Hashicorp">
```
## Before you begin

Verify that you have the following:

1. Obtain the **Public Vault Url** from Hashicopr Vault.

> 2. Obtain the **Admin Token** from Hashicorp Public vault URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Obtain the **Admin Token** from the Hashicorp Public vault URL.
```

3.  **Fork the [harnessed-example-apps](https://github.com/harness-community/harnesscd-example-apps/fork)** repository through the GitHub website.

>     - For more information on forking a GitHub repository, go to [GitHub docs](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo#forking-a-repository).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - For more information on forking a GitHub repository, go to [forking a repository](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo#forking-a-repository) in the GitHub documentation.
```

> 4. **Docker**. For this tutorial ensure that you have the Docker runtime installed on your Harness delegate host. If not, use one of the following options to install Docker:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **Docker**. For this tutorial, ensure that you have the Docker runtime installed on your Harness Delegate host. If you do not have the Docker runtime, use one of the following installation options:
```

    - [Docker for Mac](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/mac-install/)
    - [Docker for CentOS](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/centos/)
    - [Docker for Ubuntu](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/)
    - [Docker for Debian](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/debian/)
    - [Docker for Windows](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/windows-install/) 
    - Check [Delegate system requirements](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/Delegates/delegate-concepts/delegate-requirements).

> ## Getting Started with Hashicorp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Getting started with Hashicorp
```

> 1. Login to Harness.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Sign in to Harness.
```

2. Select **Projects**, and then select **Default Project**.

## Delegate

<details open>

> <summary>What is the Harness delegate?</summary>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<summary>What is the Harness Delegate?</summary>
```

> The Harness delegate is a service that runs in your local network or VPC to establish connections between the Harness Manager and various providers such as artifacts registries, cloud platforms, etc. The delegate is installed in the target infrastructure, for example, a Kubernetes cluster, and performs operations including deployment and integration. Learn more about the delegate in the [Delegate Overview](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/delegates/delegate-concepts/delegate-overview/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Harness Delegate is a service that runs in your local network or VPC to establish connections between the Harness Manager and various providers, such as artifacts registries, cloud platforms, etc. The delegate is installed in the target infrastructure, for example, a Kubernetes cluster, and performs operations, including deployment and integration. Learn more about the delegate in the [Delegate overview](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/delegates/delegate-concepts/delegate-overview/).
```

</details>

> **Make sure delegate is installed and its connected. For more details, you can refer [tutorial](https://developer.harness.io/tutorials/cd-pipelines/serverless/gcp-cloud-func#delegate)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Make sure the delegate is installed and it is connected. For more details, go to the [Google Cloud Functions](https://developer.harness.io/tutorials/cd-pipelines/serverless/gcp-cloud-func#delegate) tutorial.**
```

## Secrets

### Hashicorp - Admin Token

-  Select **New Secret**, and then select **Text**.
-  Enter the secret name `hashicorp_admin`.

> -  For the secret value, paste the admin token from Hashicorp Public vault URL. The Harness delegate uses this credential to authenticate Harness with Hashicorp at deployment runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  For the secret value, paste the admin token from the Hashicorp Public vault URL. The Harness delegate uses this credential to authenticate Harness with Hashicorp at deployment runtime.
```

-  Select **Save**.

## Connectors

<details open>
<summary>What are connectors?</summary>

> Connectors in Harness enable integration with 3rd party tools, providing authentication for operations during pipeline runtime. For instance, a GitHub connector facilitates authentication and fetching files from a GitHub repository within pipeline stages. For more details, go to [Connectors](https://developer.harness.io/docs/category/connectors).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connectors in Harness enable integration with third-party tools, providing authentication for operations during pipeline runtime. For instance, a GitHub connector facilitates authentication and fetching files from a GitHub repository within pipeline stages. For more details, go to [Connectors](https://developer.harness.io/docs/category/connectors).
```

</details>

1. Create the **Hashicorp Connector**.

- Copy the contents of [hashicorp_vault_connector.yaml](https://github.com/harness-community/harnesscd-example-apps/blob/master/harness-platform/secrets/hashicorp_vault_connector.yaml).
- In your Harness project in the Harness Manager, under **Project Setup**, select **Connectors**.
- Select **Create via YAML Builder** and paste the copied YAML.

> - Replace `Public Vault URL` with your public vault url from Hashicopr Vault.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Replace `Public Vault URL` with your public vault URL from Hashicorp Vault.
```

- Select **Save Changes** and verify that the new connector named **hashicorp_vault** is successfully created.
- Finally, select **Connection Test** under **Connectivity Status** to verify the connection is successful.

:::info

> If you are NOT using default organisation and project, make sure to change the `orgIdentifier` and `projectIdentifier` in hashicorp_vault_connector.yaml file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are NOT using the default organization and project, make sure to change the `orgIdentifier` and `projectIdentifier` in the `hashicorp_vault_connector.yaml` file.
```

:::

> Now you use this secret manager in your pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now use this secret manager in your pipeline.
```

---------------------------------------------------

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="AWS Secret Manager">
```
## Before you begin

Verify that you have the following:

> 1. Obtain the **AWS - Access Key ID** from AWS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The **AWS - Access Key ID** from AWS
```

> 2. Obtain the **AWS - Secret Key ID** from AWS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The **AWS - Secret Key ID** from AWS
```

3.  **Fork the [harnessed-example-apps](https://github.com/harness-community/harnesscd-example-apps/fork)** repository through the GitHub website.

>     - For more information on forking a GitHub repository, go to [GitHub docs](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo#forking-a-repository).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - For more information on forking a GitHub repository, go to [forking a repository](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo#forking-a-repository) in the GitHub documentation.
```

> 4. **Docker**. For this tutorial ensure that you have the Docker runtime installed on your Harness delegate host. If not, use one of the following options to install Docker:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **Docker**. For this tutorial, ensure that you have the Docker runtime installed on your Harness Delegate host. If you do not have the Docker runtime, use one of the following installation options:
```

    - [Docker for Mac](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/mac-install/)
    - [Docker for CentOS](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/centos/)
    - [Docker for Ubuntu](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/)
    - [Docker for Debian](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/debian/)
    - [Docker for Windows](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/windows-install/) 
    - Check [Delegate system requirements](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/Delegates/delegate-concepts/delegate-requirements).

> ## Getting Started with AWS KMS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Getting started with AWS KMS
```

> 1. Login to Harness.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Sign in to Harness.
```

2. Select **Projects**, and then select **Default Project**.

## Delegate

<details open>

> <summary>What is the Harness delegate?</summary>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<summary>What is the Harness Delegate?</summary>
```

> The Harness delegate is a service that runs in your local network or VPC to establish connections between the Harness Manager and various providers such as artifacts registries, cloud platforms, etc. The delegate is installed in the target infrastructure, for example, a Kubernetes cluster, and performs operations including deployment and integration. Learn more about the delegate in the [Delegate Overview](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/delegates/delegate-concepts/delegate-overview/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Harness Delegate is a service that runs in your local network or VPC to establish connections between the Harness Manager and various providers, such as artifacts registries, cloud platforms, etc. The delegate is installed in the target infrastructure, for example, a Kubernetes cluster, and performs operations, including deployment and integration. Learn more about the delegate in the [Delegate overview](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/delegates/delegate-concepts/delegate-overview/).
```

</details>

> **Make sure delegate is installed and its connected. For more details, you can refer [tutorial](https://developer.harness.io/tutorials/cd-pipelines/serverless/gcp-cloud-func#delegate)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Make sure the delegate is installed and it is connected. For more details, go to the [Google Cloud Functions](https://developer.harness.io/tutorials/cd-pipelines/serverless/gcp-cloud-func#delegate) tutorial.**
```

## Secrets

> ### AWS - Access Key ID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### AWS - Access key ID
```

-  Select **New Secret**, and then select **Text**.
-  Enter the secret name `aws_secret_access_key`.

> -  For the secret value, paste the access token for your AWS user account. The Harness delegate uses this credential to authenticate Harness with AWS at deployment runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  For the secret value, paste the access token for your AWS user account. The Harness Delegate uses this credential to authenticate Harness with AWS at deployment runtime.
```

-  Select **Save**.

> ### AWS - Secret Key ID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### AWS - Secret key ID
```

-  Select **New Secret**, and then select **Text**.
-  Enter the secret name `aws_secret_secret_key`.

> -  For the secret value, paste the access token for your AWS user account. The Harness delegate uses this credential to authenticate Harness with AWS at deployment runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  For the secret value, paste the access token for your AWS user account. The Harness Delegate uses this credential to authenticate Harness with AWS at deployment runtime.
```

-  Select **Save**.

## Connectors

<details open>
<summary>What are connectors?</summary>

> Connectors in Harness enable integration with 3rd party tools, providing authentication for operations during pipeline runtime. For instance, a GitHub connector facilitates authentication and fetching files from a GitHub repository within pipeline stages. For more details, go to [Connectors](https://developer.harness.io/docs/category/connectors).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connectors in Harness enable integration with third-party tools, providing authentication for operations during pipeline runtime. For instance, a GitHub connector facilitates authentication and fetching files from a GitHub repository within pipeline stages. For more details, go to [Connectors](https://developer.harness.io/docs/category/connectors).
```

</details>

1. Create the **AWS Connector**.

- Copy the contents of [aws-secret-manager-connector.yml](https://github.com/harness-community/harnesscd-example-apps/blob/master/harness-platform/secrets/aws-secret-manager-connector.yaml).
- In your Harness project in the Harness Manager, under **Project Setup**, select **Connectors**.
- Select **Create via YAML Builder** and paste the copied YAML.
- Select **Save Changes** and verify that the new connector named **aws-secret-manager** is successfully created.
- Finally, select **Connection Test** under **Connectivity Status** to verify the connection is successful.

:::info

> If you are NOT using default organisation and project, make sure to change the `orgIdentifier` and `projectIdentifier` in aws-secret-manager-connector.yaml file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are NOT using the default organization and project, make sure to change the `orgIdentifier` and `projectIdentifier` in the `aws-secret-manager-connector.yaml` file.
```

:::

> Now you use this secret manager in your pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now use this secret manager in your pipeline.
```

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="GCP Secret Manager">
```
## Before you begin

Verify that you have the following:

1.  **Fork the [harnessed-example-apps](https://github.com/harness-community/harnesscd-example-apps/fork)** repository through the GitHub website.

>     - For more information on forking a GitHub repository, go to [GitHub docs](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo#forking-a-repository).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - For more information on forking a GitHub repository, go to [forking a repository](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo#forking-a-repository) in the GitHub documentation.
```

> 2. **Docker**. For this tutorial ensure that you have the Docker runtime installed on your Harness delegate host. If not, use one of the following options to install Docker:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Docker**. For this tutorial, ensure that you have the Docker runtime installed on your Harness Delegate host. If you do not have the Docker runtime, use one of the following installation options:
```

    - [Docker for Mac](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/mac-install/)
    - [Docker for CentOS](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/centos/)
    - [Docker for Ubuntu](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/)
    - [Docker for Debian](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/debian/)
    - [Docker for Windows](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/windows-install/) 
    - Check [Delegate system requirements](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/Delegates/delegate-concepts/delegate-requirements).

## Getting Started with GCP KMS

> 1. Login to Harness.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Sign in to Harness.
```

2. Select **Projects**, and then select **Default Project**.

## Delegate

<details open>

> <summary>What is the Harness delegate?</summary>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<summary>What is the Harness Delegate?</summary>
```

> The Harness delegate is a service that runs in your local network or VPC to establish connections between the Harness Manager and various providers such as artifacts registries, cloud platforms, etc. The delegate is installed in the target infrastructure, for example, a Kubernetes cluster, and performs operations including deployment and integration. Learn more about the delegate in the [Delegate Overview](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/delegates/delegate-concepts/delegate-overview/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Harness Delegate is a service that runs in your local network or VPC to establish connections between the Harness Manager and various providers, such as artifacts registries, cloud platforms, etc. The delegate is installed in the target infrastructure, for example, a Kubernetes cluster, and performs operations, including deployment and integration. To learn more about delegates, go to the [Delegate overview](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/delegates/delegate-concepts/delegate-overview/).
```

</details>

> **Make sure delegate is installed and its connected. For more details, you can refer [tutorial](https://developer.harness.io/tutorials/cd-pipelines/serverless/gcp-cloud-func#delegate)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Make sure the delegate is installed and it is connected. For more details, go to the [Google Cloud Functions](https://developer.harness.io/tutorials/cd-pipelines/serverless/gcp-cloud-func#delegate) tutorial.**
```

## Secrets

> ### GCP - Secret Key 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### GCP - Secret key 
```

-  Select **New Secret**, and then select **File**.
-  Enter the secret name `gcp_secret_secret_key`.
-  For the Select File,
    - Open your GCP service account's Actions ⋮ menu, then select Manage keys. 
    - Select ADD KEY > Create new key.
    - In the resulting Create private key dialog, select JSON, create the key, and download it to your computer.
    - Upload that json file. 
-  Select **Save**.

## Connectors

<details open>
<summary>What are connectors?</summary>

> Connectors in Harness enable integration with 3rd party tools, providing authentication for operations during pipeline runtime. For instance, a GitHub connector facilitates authentication and fetching files from a GitHub repository within pipeline stages. For more details, go to [Connectors](https://developer.harness.io/docs/category/connectors).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connectors in Harness enable integration with third-party tools, providing authentication for operations during pipeline runtime. For instance, a GitHub connector facilitates authentication and fetching files from a GitHub repository within pipeline stages. For more details, go to [Connectors](https://developer.harness.io/docs/category/connectors).
```

</details>

1. Create the **GCP Connector**.

- Copy the contents of [gcp-secret-manager-connector.yaml](https://github.com/harness-community/harnesscd-example-apps/blob/master/harness-platform/secrets/gcp-secret-manager-connector.yaml).
- In your Harness project in the Harness Manager, under **Project Setup**, select **Connectors**.
- Select **Create via YAML Builder** and paste the copied YAML.
- Select **Save Changes** and verify that the new connector named **gcp-kms-connector** is successfully created.
- Finally, select **Connection Test** under **Connectivity Status** to verify the connection is successful.

:::info

> If you are NOT using default organisation and project, make sure to change the `orgIdentifier` and `projectIdentifier` in gcp-secret-manager-connector.yaml file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are NOT using the default organization and project, make sure to change the `orgIdentifier` and `projectIdentifier` in the `gcp-secret-manager-connector.yaml` file.
```

:::

> Now you use this secret manager in your pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now use this secret manager in your pipeline.
```

```mdx-code-block
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

# Secrets and log sanitization

Harness sanitizes deployment logs and any script outputs to mask text secret values.

> Lets create pipeline which will print logs on the console to see how Harness sanitization logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's create a pipeline that will print logs on the console to see how Harness sanitization logs.
```

> ### Create a New Secret. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create a new secret. 
```

-  Select **New Secret**, and then select **Text**.
-  Enter the secret name `docsecret`.

> -  For the secret value, add string `docsecret`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  For the secret value, add the string `docsecret`.
```

-  Select **Save**.

### Create a Pipeline.

- In **Default Project**, select **Pipelines**.
    - Select **New Pipeline**.
    - Enter the name `print secret`.
    - Select **Inline** to store the pipeline in Harness.
    - Select **Start** and, in the Pipeline Studio, toggle to **YAML** to use the YAML editor.

>     - Select **Edit YAML** to enable edit mode. Copy the contents of [secret-sanitization.yaml](https://github.com/harness-community/harnesscd-example-apps/blob/master/harness-platform/secrets/secret-sanitization.yaml) and Paste.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Select **Edit YAML** to enable edit mode. Copy the contents of [secret-sanitization.yaml](https://github.com/harness-community/harnesscd-example-apps/blob/master/harness-platform/secrets/secret-sanitization.yaml) and paste it.
```

>     - Select Save to save the pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Select **Save** to save the pipeline.
```

### Run the pipeline 

Finally, it's time to execute the pipeline. 

1. Select **Run**, and then select **Run Pipeline** to initiate the deployment.
2. Observe the execution logs as Harness run the pipeline. 
3. In console logs, you can see that secret is masked with ***** as per below screenshot. 

<docimage path={require('../static/secret/secret-log.png')} width="60%" height="60%" title="Click to view full size image" />

> When a text secret is displayed in a deployment log, Harness substitutes the text secret value with asterisks (*) so that the secret value is never displayed.​ Please go through the [secrets and log-sanitization](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/Secrets/Secrets-Management/secrets-and-log-sanitization) for more detail information. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a text secret is displayed in a deployment log, Harness substitutes the text secret value with asterisks (*) so that the secret value is never displayed.​ For more information, go to [secrets and log-sanitization](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/Secrets/Secrets-Management/secrets-and-log-sanitization). 
```

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
```

> In this tutorial, we'll walk you through the process of safely storing and accessing sensitive information like API keys and credentials. You'll learn best practices, gain hands-on experience, and how to ensure your secrets remain protected. Let's dive into the world of Harness secrets management.

Reviewer 2: ```
You'll learn best practices, gain hands-on experience, and understand how to ensure your secrets remain protected.
```

Missing a word or needs rephrasing. "You'll learn...", "You'll gain", and "You'll how to" doesn't make sense.

:::info

[Sign up today to unleash the potential of intelligent Harness CD](https://app.harness.io/auth/#/signup/?module=cd&utm_source=website&utm_medium=harness-developer-hub&utm_campaign=cd-plg&utm_content=tutorials-cd-secret).

:::

### Create secrets

> <details open>

Reviewer 2: I don't think the accordion is necessary for this small amount of information if it is going to be set to default open.

<summary>What are Harness secrets?</summary>

Harness offers built-in secret management for encrypted storage of sensitive information. Secrets are decrypted when needed, and only the private network-connected Harness Delegate has access to the key management system. You can also integrate your own secret manager. To learn more about secrets in Harness, go to [Harness Secret Manager Overview](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/Secrets/Secrets-Management/harness-secret-manager-overview/).

</details>

1. Under **Project Setup**, select **Secrets**.
    - Select **New Secret**, and then select **Text**.
    - Enter the secret name `SECRET_NAME`.
    - For the **secret value**, Paste the personal access token (PAT) from GitHub with the repo scope. For more information, go to [creating a personal access token](https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line) in the GitHub documentation. 
    - Select **Save**.

> # Harness secrets management overview

Reviewer 2: All headings need to be level 2 or lower.

1. The **AWS - Access Key ID** from AWS
2. The **AWS - Secret Key ID** from AWS
3. The **AWS ARN** 
4.  **Fork the [harnessed-example-apps](https://github.com/harness-community/harnesscd-example-apps/fork)** repository through the GitHub website.
    - For more information on forking a GitHub repository, go to [forking a repository](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo#forking-a-repository) in the GitHub documentation.
5. **Docker**. For this tutorial, ensure that you have the Docker runtime installed on your Harness Delegate host. If you do not have the Docker runtime, use one of the following installation options:
    - [Docker for Mac](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/mac-install/)
    - [Docker for CentOS](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/centos/)
    - [Docker for Ubuntu](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/)
    - [Docker for Debian](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/debian/)
    - [Docker for Windows](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/windows-install/) 
    - Check [Delegate system requirements](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/Delegates/delegate-concepts/delegate-requirements).

> ## Getting started with AWS KMS

Reviewer 2: ```
Get started with AWS KMS
```

## Secrets

### AWS - Access key ID

-  Select **New Secret**, and then select **Text**.
-  Enter the secret name `aws_kms_access_key`.
-  For the secret value, paste the access token for your AWS user account. The Harness Delegate uses this credential to authenticate Harness with AWS at deployment runtime.
-  Select **Save**.

### AWS - Secret key ID

-  Select **New Secret**, and then select **Text**.
-  Enter the secret name `aws_kms_secret_key`.
-  For the secret value, paste the access token for your AWS user account. The Harness Delegate uses this credential to authenticate Harness with AWS at deployment runtime.
-  Select **Save**.

### AWS - ARN

-  Select **New Secret**, and then select **Text**.
-  Enter the secret name `aws_kms_arn`.
-  For the secret value, paste the ARN for your AWS user account. The Harness Delegate uses this credential to authenticate Harness with AWS at deployment runtime.
-  Select **Save**.

For more information, go to [find the Access key ID and ARN](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/find-cmk-id-arn.html) in the AWS documentation.

## Connectors

> <details open>

Reviewer 2: Same comment as before. I think this is too little content to put in an accordion if it's default set to open.

1. Obtain the **Public Vault Url** from Hashicopr Vault.
2. Obtain the **Admin Token** from the Hashicorp Public vault URL.
3.  **Fork the [harnessed-example-apps](https://github.com/harness-community/harnesscd-example-apps/fork)** repository through the GitHub website.
    - For more information on forking a GitHub repository, go to [forking a repository](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo#forking-a-repository) in the GitHub documentation.
4. **Docker**. For this tutorial, ensure that you have the Docker runtime installed on your Harness Delegate host. If you do not have the Docker runtime, use one of the following installation options:
    - [Docker for Mac](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/mac-install/)
    - [Docker for CentOS](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/centos/)
    - [Docker for Ubuntu](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/)
    - [Docker for Debian](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/debian/)
    - [Docker for Windows](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/windows-install/) 
    - Check [Delegate system requirements](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/Delegates/delegate-concepts/delegate-requirements).

> ## Getting started with Hashicorp

Reviewer 2: Get started with Hashicorp

I don't know if "get started" is the best title for these. That sounds like we're going to tell them how to use Hashicorp for the first time. Maybe "Use Hashicorp to manage secrets" or something like that would be better?
